Thank you, Klaus, very much.  It’s a privilege to be here at this forum where leaders in business, science, art, diplomacy, and world affairs have gathered for many, many years to discuss how we can advance prosperity, security, and peace.  I’m here today to represent the interests of the American people and to affirm America’s friendship and partnership in building a better world.  Like all nations represented at this great forum, America hopes for a future in which everyone can prosper, and every child can grow up free from violence, poverty, and fear.  Over the past year, we have made extraordinary strides in the U.S.  We’re lifting up forgotten communities, creating exciting new opportunities, and helping every American find their path to the American Dream — the dream of a great job, a safe home, and a better life for their children.  After years of stagnation, the United States is once again experiencing strong economic growth.  The stock market is smashing one record after another, and has added more than $7 trillion in new wealth since my election.  Consumer confidence, business confidence, and manufacturing confidence are the highest they have been in many decades.  Since my election, we’ve created 2.4 million jobs, and that number is going up very, very substantially.  Small-business optimism is at an all-time high.  New unemployment claims are near the lowest we’ve seen in almost half a century.  African American unemployment has reached the lowest rate ever recorded in the United States, and so has unemployment among Hispanic Americans.  The world is witnessing the resurgence of a strong and prosperous America.  I’m here to deliver a simple message:  There has never been a better time to hire, to build, to invest, and to grow in the United States.  America is open for business, and we are competitive once again.  The American economy is by far the largest in the world, and we’ve just enacted the most significant tax cuts and reform in American history.  We’ve massively cut taxes for the middle class and small businesses to let working families keep more of their hard-earned money.  We lowered our corporate tax rate from 35 percent, all the way down to 21 percent.  As a result, millions of workers have received tax cut bonuses from their employers in amounts as large as $3,000.  The tax cut bill is expected to raise the average American’s household income by more than $4,000.  The world’s largest company, Apple, announced plans to bring $245 billion in overseas profits home to America.  Their total investment into the United States economy will be more than $350 billion over the next five years.  Now is the perfect time to bring your business, your jobs, and your investments to the United States.  This is especially true because we have undertaken the most extensive regulatory reduction ever conceived.  Regulation is stealth taxation.  The U.S., like many other countries, unelected bureaucrats — and we have — believe me, we have them all over the place — and they’ve imposed crushing and anti-business and anti-worker regulations on our citizens with no vote, no legislative debate, and no real accountability.  In America, those days are over.  I pledged to eliminate two unnecessary regulations for every one new regulation.  We have succeeded beyond our highest expectations.  Instead of 2 for 1, we have cut 22 burdensome regulations for every 1 new rule.  We are freeing our businesses and workers so they can thrive and flourish as never before.  We are creating an environment that attracts capital, invites investment, and rewards production.  America is the place to do business.  So come to America, where you can innovate, create, and build.  I believe in America.  As President of the United States, I will always put America first, just like the leaders of other countries should put their country first also.  But America first does not mean America alone.  When the United States grows, so does the world.  American prosperity has created countless jobs all around the globe, and the drive for excellence, creativity, and innovation in the U.S. has led to important discoveries that help people everywhere live more prosperous and far healthier lives.  As the United States pursues domestic reforms to unleash jobs and growth, we are also working to reform the international trading system so that it promotes broadly shared prosperity and rewards to those who play by the rules.  We cannot have free and open trade if some countries exploit the system at the expense of others.  We support free trade, but it needs to be fair and it needs to be reciprocal.  Because, in the end, unfair trade undermines us all.  The United States will no longer turn a blind eye to unfair economic practices, including massive intellectual property theft, industrial subsidies, and pervasive state-led economic planning.  These and other predatory behaviors are distorting the global markets and harming businesses and workers, not just in the U.S., but around the globe.  Just like we expect the leaders of other countries to protect their interests, as President of the United States, I will always protect the interests of our country, our companies, and our workers.  We will enforce our trade laws and restore integrity to our trading system.  Only by insisting on fair and reciprocal trade can we create a system that works not just for the U.S. but for all nations.  As I have said, the United States is prepared to negotiate mutually beneficial, bilateral trade agreements with all countries.  This will include the countries in TPP, which are very important.  We have agreements with several of them already. We would consider negotiating with the rest, either individually, or perhaps as a group, if it is in the interests of all.  My administration is also taking swift action in other ways to restore American confidence and independence.  We are lifting self-imposed restrictions on energy production to provide affordable power to our citizens and businesses, and to promote energy security for our friends all around the world.  No country should be held hostage to a single provider of energy.  America is roaring back, and now is the time to invest in the future of America.  We have dramatically cut taxes to make America competitive.  We are eliminating burdensome regulations at a record pace.  We are reforming the bureaucracy to make it lean, responsive, and accountable.  And we are ensuring our laws are enforced fairly.  We have the best colleges and universities in the world, and we have the best workers in the world.  Energy is abundant and affordable.  There has never been a better time to come to America.  We are also making historic investments in the American military because we cannot have prosperity without security.  To make the world safer from rogue regimes, terrorism, and revisionist powers, we are asking our friends and allies to invest in their own defenses and to meet their financial obligations.  Our common security requires everyone to contribute their fair share.  My administration is proud to have led historic efforts, at the United Nations Security Council and all around the world, to unite all civilized nations in our campaign of maximum pressure to de-nuke the Korean Peninsula.  We continue to call on partners to confront Iran’s support for terrorists and block Iran’s path to a nuclear weapon.  We’re also working with allies and partners to destroy jihadist terrorist organizations such as ISIS, and very successfully so.  The United States is leading a very broad coalition to deny terrorists control of their territory and populations, to cut off their funding, and to discredit their wicked ideology.  I am pleased to report that the coalition to defeat ISIS has retaken almost 100 percent of the territory once held by these killers in Iraq and Syria.  There is still more fighting and work to be done and to consolidate our gains.  We are committed to ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for terrorists who want to commit mass murder to our civilian populations.  I want to thank those nations represented here today that have joined in these crucial efforts.  You are not just securing your own citizens, but saving lives and restoring hope for millions and millions of people.  When it comes to terrorism, we will do whatever is necessary to protect our nation.  We will defend our citizens and our borders.  We are also securing our immigration system, as a matter of both national and economic security.  America is a cutting-edge economy, but our immigration system is stuck in the past.  We must replace our current system of extended-family chain migration with a merit-based system of admissions that selects new arrivals based on their ability to contribute to our economy, to support themselves financially, and to strengthen our country.  In rebuilding America, we are also fully committed to developing our workforce.  We are lifting people from dependence to independence, because we know the single best anti-poverty program is a very simple and very beautiful paycheck.  To be successful, it is not enough to invest in our economy.  We must invest in our people.  When people are forgotten, the world becomes fractured.  Only by hearing and responding to the voices of the forgotten can we create a bright future that is truly shared by all.  The nation’s greatness is more than the sum of its production.  A nation’s greatness is the sum of its citizens:  the values, pride, love, devotion, and character of the people who call that nation home.  From my first international G7 Summit, to the G20, to the U.N. General Assembly, to APEC, to the World Trade Organization, and today at the World Economic Forum, my administration has not only been present, but has driven our message that we are all stronger when free, sovereign nations cooperate toward shared goals and they cooperate toward shared dreams.  Represented in this room are some of the remarkable citizens from all over the world.  You are national leaders, business titans, industry giants, and many of the brightest minds in many fields.  Each of you has the power to change hearts, transform lives, and shape your countries’ destinies.  With this power comes an obligation, however — a duty of loyalty to the people, workers, and customers who have made you who you are.  So together, let us resolve to use our power, our resources, and our voices, not just for ourselves, but for our people — to lift their burdens, to raise their hopes, and to empower their dreams; to protect their families, their communities, their histories, and their futures.  That’s what we’re doing in America, and the results are totally unmistakable.  It’s why new businesses and investment are flooding in.  It’s why our unemployment rate is the lowest it’s been in so many decades.  It’s why America’s future has never been brighter.  Today, I am inviting all of you to become part of this incredible future we are building together.  Thank you to our hosts, thank you to the leaders and innovators in the audience.  But most importantly, thank you to all of the hardworking men and women who do their duty each and every day, making this a better world for everyone.  Together, let us send our love and our gratitude to make them, because they really make our countries run.  They make our countries great.  Thank you, and God bless you all.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)  Thank you very much.  Well, first of all, Klaus, I want to congratulate you.  This is an incredible group of people.  We had dinner last night with about 15 leaders of industry, none of whom I knew, but all of whom I’ve read about for years.  And it was truly an incredible group.  But I think I have 15 new friends.  So this has been really great what you’ve done and putting it together, the economic forum.  The tax reform was a dream of a lot of people over many years, but they weren’t able to get it done.  Many people tried, and Ronald Reagan was really the last to make a meaningful cut and reform.  And ours is cutting and reforming.  We emphasize cut, but the reform is probably almost as important.  We’ve wanted to do it.  It is very tough, politically, to do it.  Hard to believe that would be, but it is very, very tough.  That’s why it hasn’t been done in close to 40 years.  And once we got it going, it was going.  And the big — and I wouldn’t say a total surprise, but one of the big things that happened and took place is AT&T and some others came out very early and they said they were going to pay thousands and thousands of dollars to people that work for their companies.  And you have 300,000, 400,000, 500,000 people working for these companies, and all of a sudden it became like a big waterfall, a big, beautiful waterfall where so many companies are doing it.  And even today they just announced many more.  But every day they announce more and more.  And now it’s a fight for who’s going to give the most.  It started at 1,000, and now we have them up to 3,000.  This is something that we didn’t anticipate.  Oftentimes in business, things happen that you don’t anticipate.  Usually that’s a bad thing, but this was a good thing.  This came out of nowhere.  Nobody ever thought of this as a possibility even.  It wasn’t in the equation.  We waited — we said, wait until February 1st when the checks start coming in.  And people, Klaus, have a lot more money in their paycheck — because it’s not just a little money, this is a lot of money for people making a living doing whatever they may be doing.  And we really though February 1st it was going to kick in and everybody was going to be — well, we haven’t even gotten there yet and it’s kicked in.  And it’s had an incredible impact on the stock market and the stock prices.  We’ve set 84 records since my election — record stock market prices, meaning we hit new highs 84 different times out of a one-year period.  And that’s a great thing.  And in all fairness, that was done before we passed the tax cuts and tax reform.  So what happened is really something special.  Then, as you know, and as I just said, Apple came in with $350 billion.  And I tell you, I spoke with Tim Cook; I said, Tim, I will never consider this whole great run that we’ve made complete until you start building plants in the U.S.  And I will tell you, this moved up very substantially.  But when I heard 350, I thought he was talking — I thought they were talking $350 million.  And, by the way, that’s a nice-sized plant.  Not the greatest, but not bad.  And they said, “No, sir.  It’s $350 billion.”  I said, that is something.  Well, we have tremendous amounts of money, including my newfound friends from last night — great companies.  They’re all investing.  When one of the gentlemen said he’s putting in $2 billion because of the tax cuts, I said to myself, “Wow, he’s actually the cheap one in the group” — because they’re putting in massive numbers of billions of dollars.  So I think you have a brand-new United States.  You have a United States where people from all over the world are looking to come in and invest, and there’s just nothing like what’s happening.  And I just want to finish by — I have a group of people that have been so — I have a whole lot of them, so I won’t introduce because then I’ll insult at least half of them.  But I’ve had a group of people that worked so hard on this and other things.  And we’re really doing — we had a great first year — so successful in so many different ways.  And there’s a tremendous spirit.  When you look at all of the different charts and polls, and you see, as an example, African American unemployment at the historic low — it’s never had a period of time like this.  Same with Hispanic.  Women at a 17-year low.  It’s very heartwarming to see.  But there’s a tremendous spirit in the United States.  I would say it’s a spirit like I have never witnessed before.  I’ve been here for awhile.  I have never witnessed the spirit that our country has right now.  So I just want to thank you all, and all those that are pouring billions of dollars into our country, or ten dollars into our country, we thank you very much.  Thank you.  Steven, Wilbur, Gary, Robert, even my General and my various other generals, you know.  We’re making our military protection a little bit better for us too.  So thank you very much.  Does everybody understand that?  I think so.  Thank you all for being here.  Well, being a businessman has been a great experience for me.  I’ve loved it.  I’ve always loved business.  I’ve always been good at building things, and I’ve always been successful at making money.  I’d buy things that would fail –that would be failures — and I’d turn them around and try and get them for the right price, and then I’d turn them around and make them successful.  And I’ve been good at it.  And that takes a certain ability.  And, you know, historically, I guess, there’s never really been a businessman or businessperson elected President.  It’s always been a general or a politician.  Throughout history, it’s always been a general — you had to be a general — but mostly it was politicians.  You never have a businessman.  And then, in all fairness, I was saying to Klaus last night: Had the opposing party to me won — some of whom you backed, some of the people in the room — instead of being up almost 50 percent — the stock market is up since my election almost 50 percent — rather than that, I believe the stock market from that level, the initial level, would have been down close to 50 percent.  That’s where we were heading.  I really believe that — because they were going to put on massive new regulations.  You couldn’t breathe.  It was choking our country to death.  And I was able to see that, Klaus, as a businessperson.  The other thing is, I’ve always seemed to get, for whatever reason, a disproportionate amount of press or media.  (Laughter.)  Throughout my whole life — somebody will explain someday why — but I’ve always gotten a lot.  (Laughter.)  And as businessman I was always treated really well by the press.  The numbers speak and things happen, but I’ve always really had a very good press.  And it wasn’t until I became a politician that I realized how nasty, how mean, how vicious, and how fake the press can be.  As the cameras start going off in the background.  (Laughter.)  But overall — I mean, the bottom line — somebody said, well, they couldn’t have been that bad because here we are — we’re President.  And I think we’re doing a really great job with my team.  I have a team of just tremendous people, and I think we’re doing a very special job.  And I really believe it was time, and it was time to do that job, because I don’t think the United States would have done very well if it went through four or eight more years of regulation and, really, a very anti-business group of people.  We have a very pro-business group.  We have regulations cut to a level — in the history of our country, Klaus — this was reported recently.  In one year we’ve cut more regulations in my administration than any other administration in four, eight, or sixteen years, in the one case.  We’ve cut more regulations in one year, and we have a ways to go.  I mean, we’re probably 50 percent done.  And we’re going to have regulation.  There’s nothing wrong with rules and regulations; you need them.  But we’ve cut more than any administration ever in the history of our country, and we still have a ways to go.  So I think between that and the tremendous tax cuts, we’ve really done something.  And one other thing I said — and I saw it last night with some of the leaders and the businesspeople — I think I’ve been a cheerleader for our country, and everybody representing a company or a country has to be a cheerleader, or no matter what you do, it’s just not going to work.  And the reason I’m a cheerleader is because it’s easy — because I love our country and I think we’re just doing really well.  And we look forward to seeing you in America — special place — and where you are is a special place also.  Thank you all very much.  I appreciate it.  (Applause.)  Thank you very much.  You just want massive tax cuts.  That’s what you want.  That’s the only reason you’re going so wild.  (Applause.)  But it’s wonderful to be back in the great state of Indiana.  What a place.  (Applause.)  I want to thank Senator Todd Young, Senator Joe Donnelly, Representative Jackie Walorski, Representative Susan Brooks, and Representative Mike [sic] Messer for joining us today.  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much for being here.  Appreciate it.  (Applause.)  I also want to thank members of my economic team, Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Director Gary Cohn, for joining us, as well.  We appreciate it.  (Applause.)  Let me begin by saying that our hearts and prayers go out to the people of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands who are suffering in the wake of yet another catastrophic hurricane.  I mean, their island was virtually destroyed.  Federal agencies are working closely with local partners to help these communities get back on their feet as soon as possible.  Texas, Florida, and Louisiana are doing great, and the recovery process is happening very, very quickly.  I will be going down to Puerto Rico next week to get an on-the-ground briefing about the disaster recovery and to see all of our great first responders and to meet a lot of the people who were so affected by these storms.  We are with you now, I tell them, and we will be there every step of the way until this job is done.  It is truly catastrophic what happened in Puerto Rico.  (Applause.)  And massive amounts of water, food, and supplies, by the way, are being delivered on an hourly basis.  It’s something that nobody has ever seen before from this country, I can tell you that.  And I’m very proud of all of the folks that have worked so hard in FEMA, all of our first responders, all of our police that have gone to the island because their police force has been so badly affected.  And many of their policemen — in fact, most of the police people have lost their homes, and it’s been a tough go.  But we are — we’re going to get it back.  Before we go on to discuss the largest tax cut in our county’s history, I also want to provide a brief update on healthcare.  We have the votes on Graham-Cassidy.  But with the rules of reconciliation, we’re up against a deadline of Friday — two days.  That’s just two days.  And yes-vote senator — we have a wonderful senator, great, great senator — who is a yes vote, but he’s home recovering from a pretty tough situation.  And with so many great features, including all of the block granting, the money to the states, et cetera, et cetera, our healthcare plan is really going to be something excellent.  It’s going to be better managed for the people that it serves.  Having local healthcare representatives is far better than having healthcare managed from Washington, D.C.  Not even a contest.  (Applause.)  And many, many governors, as you also see, have agreed with us and approved it and really look forward to running it properly.  But again, because the reconciliation window is about to close, we have to wait a few months until it reopens before we take a vote.  So we’re getting all of the good signs from Alaska and the others to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And I was hoping this would be put on my desk right after we won the election, and I’d come in and sign.  But it didn’t work that way.  There were a couple of people that — I won’t say anything.  (Laughter.)  But early next year when reconciliation kicks back in, in any event long before the November election, we’re going to have a vote.  And we’re going to be able to get that through, and I think we’ll actually get it through very easily and the time makes it easier.  But speaking of reconciliation, the Republican Senate needs to get rid of the filibuster rule, which is blocking so many great legislative reforms the American people badly want and deserve.  By the way, the Democrats, if they had the opportunity, which hopefully they won’t for many, many years, they would get rid of it on day one.  And most of you know exactly what I’m talking about.  We’re here today in Indiana to announce our framework to deliver historic tax relief to the American People.  (Applause.)  This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity, and I guess it’s probably something I can say that I’m very good at.  I’ve been waiting for this for a long time.  We’re going to cut taxes for the middle class, make the tax code simpler and more fair for everyday Americans, and we are going to bring back the jobs and wealth that have left our country — and most people thought left our country for good.  (Applause.)  We want tax reform that is pro-growth, pro-jobs, pro-worker, pro-family, and, yes, tax reform that is pro-American.  (Applause.)  It’s time to take care of our people, to rebuild our nation, and to fight for our great American workers.  (Applause.)  Indiana is a tremendous example of the prosperity that is unleashed when we cut taxes and set free the dreams of our citizens.  This state has claimed a powerful competitive edge built on low taxes and less regulation — and are we cutting regulation?  (Applause.)  And businesses all across the country have taken notice.  In recent years, Indiana has welcomed dozens of companies fleeing high taxes and high-tax states.  Thousands of new jobs and massive capital investment have followed — meaning a better quality of life for the people of Indiana.  All of this is possible because the people of this state have made a decision. They chose to make Indiana competitive again.  They chose, and their choice was so important.  It included electing a governor, who you may have heard of — (laughter) — who signed the largest income tax cut in the state’s history, our very, very terrific person and terrific Vice President, Mike Pence.  (Applause.)  It’s time for Washington to learn from the wisdom of Indiana.  We need Washington to promote American jobs instead of obstructing them.  That is what I have been working to achieve every day since I took office.  That is what I talked about on the campaign trail.  Already, we’re seeing the results of an economic policy that finally puts America first.  (Applause.)  Unemployment is at a 16-year low.  Unemployment for African Americans is near its lowest point since the turn of the millennium.  It’s really a fantastic thing to see.  (Applause.)  Wages are rising.  Optimism among manufacturers has reached all-time highs.  GDP growth last quarter reached 3 percent way ahead of schedule; nobody thought that was going to happen for a long time.  (Applause.)  And this quarter, I believe, would have been better, but the hurricanes will have an impact.  But other than that, it would have been, in my opinion, even better.  Your government is working for you once again, not for the donors, not the special interests, but the hardworking taxpaying citizens of our country.  (Applause.)  America is back on the right track.  And I see so many red hats — Make America Great Again.  That’s what we’re doing — Make America Great Again.  (Applause.)  But our country and our economy cannot take off like they should unless we dramatically reform America’s outdated, complex, and extremely burdensome tax code.  It’s a relic.  We’ve got to change it.  We have to compete — compete with other countries.  The current tax system is a colossal barrier standing in the way of America’s economic comeback because it can be far greater than it’s ever been.  But we’re going to remove that barrier to create the tax system our people finally, finally, finally — and want and deserve.  For several months, my administration has been working closely with Congress to develop a framework for tax reform.  Over the next few months, the House and Senate will build on this framework and produce legislation that will deliver more jobs, higher pay, and lower taxes for middle-class families — for the working man and woman — and for businesses of all sizes.  I look forward — (Applause.)  Thank you.  I look forward to working with Congress to deliver these historic tax cuts and reforms to the American people.  These tax cuts are significant.  There’s never been tax cuts like what we’re talking about.  Our framework is based on four key ideas:  First, we will cut taxes for the everyday, hardworking Americans — the people that work so long, so hard, and they’ve been forgotten.  But they’re not forgotten anymore.  I think we proved that on November 8th.  (Applause.)  Under this framework, the first $12,000 of income earned by a single individual will be tax free, — (applause) — and a married couple won’t pay a dime in taxes on their first $24,000 of income.  So, a married couple — up to $24,000 — can spend their money on their family, on their children, on what they have to do.  So much better.  In other words, more income for more people will be taxed at a rate of zero.  (Applause.)  At this zero percent rate, taxable income will be subject to just three tax rates of 12 percent, 25 percent, and 35 percent.  Jonathan Blanton and his wife Jamie from Greentown are here with us today.  Where are they?  Oh, hello, Jonathan.  How are you?  (Applause.)  Jonathan does industrial janitorial work and Jamie works at an auto company.  Together they’re raising four beautiful children, and last year they earned less than $90,000.  Under our tax plan they would have saved more than $1,000, and it could be substantially more.  And that’s just on federal taxes.  So they would have saved at least $1,000.  Middle-income families will save even more money with an increased child tax credit for children under the age of 17, which so many families have been calling for.  (Applause.)  We will eliminate the marriage penalty in the existing credit and expand eligibility to include even more middle-income families.  Greatly expanded.  We’re also expanding the child tax credit because we believe the most important investment our country can make is in our children.  (Applause.)  And this is just one more critical way that we’re targeting relief to working families.  In addition, under our framework, those caring for the elderly loved — and we love these people, but we’re caring, and we take such care of the elderly and other adult dependents — will receive financial relief in the form of a $500 tax credit.  (Applause.)  We’re doing everything we can to reduce the tax burden on you and your family.  By eliminating tax breaks and loopholes, we will ensure that the benefits are focused on the middle class, the working men and women, not the highest-income earners.  (Applause.)  Our framework includes our explicit commitment that tax reform will protect low-income and middle-income households, not the wealthy and well-connected.  They can call me all they want.  It’s not going to help.  I’m doing the right thing, and it’s not good for me.  Believe me.  (Applause.)  But what is good for me — not only as President and legacy — what is good for me is if everything takes off like a rocket ship, like it should have for 20 years.  That’s good for me.  That’s good for everyone.  (Applause.)  And that’s what I think is going to happen.  (Applause.)  And a lot of very wealthy people feel the same way, believe me.  In fact, we are eliminating most itemized deductions that primarily benefit the wealthiest taxpayers.  We’ve also given Congress the flexibility to add an additional top rate on the very highest income earners to provide even more tax relief for working people.  Second, our framework will make the tax code simple, fair, and easy to understand, finally.  (Applause.)  Americans waste money.  Americans waste so much money — billions and billions of dollars and many hours each year to comply with our ridiculously complex tax code.  More than 90 percent of Americans use assistance to prepare their taxes.  Under our framework, the vast majority of families will be able to file their taxes on a single sheet of paper.  (Applause.)  We are also repealing the alternative minimum tax, or AMT.  About time.  (Applause.)  The AMT is actually a shadow tax system that requires many people to calculate their taxes two different ways and pay the higher of the two amounts.  You’re all familiar with it.  Under our framework, the AMT will make even less sense because we are repealing many of the special interest tax breaks that it was designed to deal with.  We are making our taxes simple again.  We are simplifying our tax system.  To protect millions of small businesses and the American farmer, we are finally ending the crushing, the horrible, the unfair estate tax, or as it is often referred to, the death tax.  (Applause.)  That means, especially for all of you with small businesses that are really tremendous businesses, you’ll be able to leave them to your family, and your family won’t have to run out and do a fire sale to try and get the money to pay the tax — lose the business, ends up going out of business.  All of those jobs are lost.  The farmers in particular are affected.  They have wonderful farms, but they can’t pay the tax, so they have to sell the farm.  The people that buy it don’t run it with love.  They can’t run it the same way, and it goes out.  So that death tax is a disaster for this country and a disaster for so many small businesses and farmers.  And we’re getting rid of it.  (Applause.)  Now if you don’t like your family, it won’t matter, okay?  (Laughter.)  But for those that love your family, it matters a lot.  (Laughter.)  With us today is Kip Tom, a family farmer from Leesburg — Where’s Kip?  Go ahead, Kip.  Hi, Kip — (applause) — who fears that his family’s farming heritage — it’s been a long time.  How long, Kip?  A hundred and eighty-seven years — that’s peanuts, Kip.  (Applause.)  Wow.  That’s a long time.  But that great heritage could come to an end because of the death tax, or the estate tax, and could make it impossible for him to pass that legacy to his wonderful family.  We’re not going to let that happen.  We are not going to allow the death tax to steal away the American Dream from these great, great families, many of which are in this room today.  (Applause.)  We will protect our farmers, our ranchers, and our small businesses, and we will make taxes simple, easy, and fair for all Americans.  Okay?  (Applause.)  Third, we will cut taxes on American businesses to restore our competitive edge and create more jobs and higher wages for American workers.  (Applause.)  In Indiana, you have seen firsthand that cutting taxes on businesses makes your state more competitive and leads to more jobs and higher paychecks for your workers.  Now, we want to do the same thing for America, making our country more competitive with other nations.  And in many cases, those other nations are taking advantage of us in so many ways.  They say they’re friends, and perhaps they are, but believe me, I am renegotiating our trade deals, including NAFTA, including many other trade deals.  (Applause.)  And through regulation, all you have to do is look at the massive pipelines — Dakota Access.  You take a look, 48,000 jobs immediately approved.  So we’re letting that happen.  But in terms of the tax and the tax strategy that Ronald Reagan used to create an economic boom in the 1980s:  When our economy took off, the middle class thrived, and the family income of all families was increasing more and more.  And it was a beautiful sight to behold.  Since then, other nations have adopted, unfortunately, our playbook and ran it even better than we did.  And I shouldn’t say even better because we didn’t run it well at all, and we let other nations come in and take advantage of us and take our jobs away and take our businesses out.  And we’re stopping that, and you see it right here what we’ve done.  Today, our total business tax rate is 60 percent higher than our average foreign competitor in the developed world.  That’s not good.  We have surrendered our competitive edge to other countries, but we’re not surrendering anymore.  We’re not surrendering anymore.  Under our framework, we will dramatically cut the business tax rate so that American companies and American workers can beat our foreign competitors and start winning again.  (Applause.)  We will reduce the corporate tax rate to no higher than 20 percent.  That’s way down from 35 and 39 — (applause) — which is substantially below the average of other industrialized nations. This is a revolutionary change, and the biggest winners will be the everyday American workers as jobs start pouring into our country, as companies start competing for American labor, and as wages start going up at levels that you haven’t seen in many years.  (Applause.)  When our companies move to other countries, it’s our loyal American workers who get hurt.  And when companies stay in America, and come to America, it’s our wonderful workers who reap the rewards.  And I just left the United Nations last week, and I was told by one of the most powerful leaders of the world that they’re going to be announcing, in the not-too-distant future, five major factories in the United States — between increasing and new — five.  (Applause.)  You’ll be hearing about that very soon.  And I said thank you very much, and he said, “you know what?  It’s starting to happen in the United States.  It’s starting to happen.”  So I just wanted to let you know that.  I promised I wouldn’t say who.  I’ll keep my word.  Okay?  (Laughter.)  Unless you force me.  (Laughter.)  Members of both parties — it happens to be in the automobile industry.  That’s a good industry.  (Laughter.)  Members of both parties should agree that we need a tax code that keeps jobs in our country and brings jobs back to our country.  (Applause.)  And for the millions of small businesses and farms that file their taxes as sole proprietors, S corporations or partnerships, we will cap the tax rate they pay at 25 percent — much lower.  Big difference.  (Applause.)  This will be the lowest top marginal income tax rate for small and mid-size businesses in this country in more than 80 years.  (Applause.)  To give businesses even more reason to boost their investment in America, for the next five years, our framework will allow to fully write off — listen to this — the cost of equipment in the year they buy it.  That is big.  (Applause.)  And that’s instead of having to take deductions and deduct the cost over a long period of time.  Now that’s called incentive.  That’s called incentive.  (Applause.)  This will be tremendously important to help American businesses afford the heavy industrial machinery and other capital investments they need to grow big and grow strong.  Joining us today is John Gannon, the owner of a custom wood fencing and deck construction company in Indianapolis.  John is the father of nine children, and recently celebrated his 35th wedding anniversary.  Congratulations, John.  (Applause.)  And John is in the fencing company, as you heard, and I’m just thinking — I have to mention this — you know, we have a fence around the White House.  (Laughter.)  We have a fence around the White House, and they want to build a new fence.  And I figured, you know — I’m pretty good at construction — I figured, I don’t know, maybe a million, maybe a million-and-a-half.  And this has been taking place over a long period of time — previous administrations.  So I said, “how much is the fence you’re talking around the White House?”  “Sir, the fence will cost approximately $50 million.”  I said, “What?”  (Laughter.)  I kid you not, and we have thousands of things like that.  Thousands.  We’re going to get it all down, but think of that:  $50 million.  Now, I assume it’s a strong fence.  (Laughter.)  Okay?  So, John, do you think you could do it for slightly less than $50 million?  I think he could take $49 off right now and he’d have plenty of profit.  Right?  Right, John?  It’s crazy.  (Applause.)  It’s crazy.  Never understand it, but we’re working on it.  John says that a tax cut like we’re proposing will make his business more competitive, allowing him to expand, hire more workers, and raise wages for his current employees.  Right, John?  Also with us is Aaron Williams, a father of two who works in the field of information technology.  Where’s Aaron?  Hello, Aaron.  Hi.  (Applause.)  It’s a good field.  Aaron has seen the disastrous effects of high — and just literally, high corporate tax rates right up close and personal, as more and more high-tech jobs are shipped overseas.  You’ve been watching it, Aaron.  Right?  All over.  Like millions of other Americans, Aaron wants to bring those jobs back to the United States.  We’re going to reduce the tax rate on American businesses so they can keep jobs in America, Aaron; create jobs in America; compete for workers in America; and raise wages right here in America.  You’re going to be in a much different position.  Okay?  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Tremendous incentives.  We want more products proudly stamped with those four beautiful words:  Made in the USA.  Right?  (Applause.)  Made in the USA.  Finally, our framework encourages American companies to bring back the trillions and trillions of dollars in wealth that’s parked overseas.  Our current tax system — (applause) — trillions.  And by the way, for years I’ve been hearing it’s 2.5 trillion.  So I’ve been hearing this for about five years, so I assume it’s much more.  Right?  But Democrats want to do it, and Republicans want to do it.  For years — who doesn’t want to do it?  They want to bring — but they can’t do it because it’s so restrictive, and the taxes are so ridiculous.  So they can’t do it.  So the money stays in other countries, and it’s invested in other countries.  We want to bring it back.  But think of it, it’s one of the few things — Democrats want it and Republicans want it.  So they both want it, and yet for years they haven’t been able to do it.  Now we’re doing it.  We’re doing things.  (Applause.)  You know, it’s one thing when we want a healthcare and they want a healthcare, and there’s a dispute.  But here’s something everybody wants and they can’t do it.  So you can tell you, there’s a broken system in D.C., but we’re getting it fixed rather — I think — rather rapidly.  You’ll be seeing that over the next few months.  Our current tax system makes us one of the few developed nations in the world to punish our companies when they bring wealth earned overseas back into our country.  We’re punishing them for bringing the money back in.  As a result, corporations have parked many trillions of dollars in foreign countries, and many have incorporated abroad in order to avoid our punitive tax system altogether.  And some companies actually leave our country because they have so much money overseas — so much, it’s an incredible amount — that they move the company to get their money.  We’re going to let them bring the money back home.  (Applause.)  Our framework will stop punishing companies for keeping their headquarters in the United States.  We’re punishing companies under our codes for being in the United States.  We will impose a one-time low tax on returning money that is already offshore so that it can be brought back home to America where it belongs and where it can be put to work and work and work.  (Applause.)  The framework I’ve just described represents a once-in-a-generation opportunity to reduce taxes, rebuild our economy, and restore America’s competitive edge.  Finally.  (Applause.)  And I have to say, just before coming here we released some of the details of the tax and the tax reform and the tax cuts, and it has really received tremendous, tremendous reviews.  And if Senator Donnelly doesn’t approve it, because you know he’s on the other side, we will come here.  We will campaign against him like you wouldn’t believe.  (Applause.)  I think they’re going to approve it.  I think we’ll have — actually, I think we’ll have numerous Democrats come across because it’s the right thing to do.  These reforms will be a dramatic change from a failed tax system that encourages American businesses to ship jobs to foreign countries that have much lower tax rates.  It’s what we can’t do.  Our competitors have much lower tax rates.  But no longer.  My administration strongly rejects this offshoring model, and we have embraced the new model.  It’s called — the American model.  (Applause.)  Under the American model, we are reducing burdens on our businesses as long as they do business in our country.  That’s what we want.  We want them to do business in our country, not to leave our country like a number of firms from Indiana.  Some made some great promises to me, but those promises are only being partially kept because they’re incentivized to leave.  But now they’re going to be incentivized to stay.  And if that doesn’t work, then we’ll get even tougher than that.  Okay?  We want our companies to hire and grow in America and to raise wages for American workers, and to help rebuild American cities and towns.  (Applause.)  That is how we will all succeed together and grow together as one team, one people, and one American family.  We want it to happen here.  (Applause.)  Tax reform has not historically been a partisan issue, and it does not have to be a partisan issue today.  I really believe we’re going to have numerous Democrats come over and sign because it’s the right thing to do.  I believe that it’s the right thing to do, and I know many of them.  And they’re telling me it is the right thing to do.  President Reagan’s tax cuts were passed with significant bipartisan majorities at a time when there was a Democrat majority in the House and a Democrat Speaker — Tip O’Neill.  Before that, Democrat President John F. Kennedy championed tax cuts that surged the economy and massively reduced unemployment.   As President Kennedy very wisely said, “The single most important fiscal weapon available to strengthen the national economy is the federal tax policy.  The right kind of tax cut at the right time” — at the right time, this is the right time — “is the most effective measure that this government could take to spur our economy forward.”  That was President Kennedy.  (Applause.)  My fellow Americans, this is the right tax cut, and this is the right time.  Democrats and Republicans in Congress should come together, finally, to deliver this giant win for the American people and begin middle-class miracle — it’s called a middle-class miracle, once again.  It’s also called a miracle for our great companies; a miracle for the middle class, for the working person.  I truly believe that many Democrats want to support our plan, and with enough encouragement from the American people, they will find the courage to do what is right for our great country.  (Applause.)  But they’ll only do it if you, the American people, make your voices heard.  Only if you tell Congress to give us a tax code that puts American jobs first.  And that’s what we’re doing.  (Applause.)  History has proven time and time again that there is no power on Earth more awesome than the will of the American people.  That is why today I am asking all Americans — Republican, Democrat, independent — to join with me, and with each other to demand tax reform that will truly, truly, truly make America great again.  (Applause.)  Call your congressmen.  Call your senators.  Let them know you’re watching.  Let them know you’re waiting.  Tell them that today is the day for decision.  That now is the time to heal this self-inflicted economic wound.  And that with their action, the future will belong to all of us.  If you demand it, the politicians will listen.  They will answer, and they will act.  And someday, many years from now, our children and our grandchildren will remember this moment in history as the time when ordinary Americans took control of their destiny and chose a future of American patriotism, prosperity, and pride.  (Applause.)  With your help and your voice, we will bring back our jobs, we will bring back our wealth, and for every citizen across this land, we will bring back our great American dreams.  Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  I would like to begin by addressing the terrorist attack in Manila.  We’re closely monitoring the situation, and I will continue to give updates if anything happens during this period of time.  But it is really very sad as to what’s going on throughout the world with terror.  Our thoughts and our prayers are with all of those affected.  Before we discuss the Paris Accord, I’d like to begin with an update on our tremendous — absolutely tremendous — economic progress since Election Day on November 8th.  The economy is starting to come back, and very, very rapidly.  We’ve added $3.3 trillion in stock market value to our economy, and more than a million private sector jobs.  I have just returned from a trip overseas where we concluded nearly $350 billion of military and economic development for the United States, creating hundreds of thousands of jobs.  It was a very, very successful trip, believe me.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  In my meetings at the G7, we have taken historic steps to demand fair and reciprocal trade that gives Americans a level playing field against other nations.  We’re also working very hard for peace in the Middle East, and perhaps even peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians.  Our attacks on terrorism are greatly stepped up — and you see that, you see it all over — from the previous administration, including getting many other countries to make major contributions to the fight against terror.  Big, big contributions are being made by countries that weren’t doing so much in the form of contribution.  One by one, we are keeping the promises I made to the American people during my campaign for President –- whether it’s cutting job-killing regulations; appointing and confirming a tremendous Supreme Court justice; putting in place tough new ethics rules; achieving a record reduction in illegal immigration on our southern border; or bringing jobs, plants, and factories back into the United States at numbers which no one until this point thought even possible.  And believe me, we’ve just begun.  The fruits of our labor will be seen very shortly even more so.  On these issues and so many more, we’re following through on our commitments.  And I don’t want anything to get in our way.  I am fighting every day for the great people of this country.  Therefore, in order to fulfill my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens, the United States will withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord — (applause) — thank you, thank you — but begin negotiations to reenter either the Paris Accord or a really entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States, its businesses, its workers, its people, its taxpayers.  So we’re getting out.  But we will start to negotiate, and we will see if we can make a deal that’s fair.  And if we can, that’s great.  And if we can’t, that’s fine.  (Applause.)  As President, I can put no other consideration before the wellbeing of American citizens.  The Paris Climate Accord is simply the latest example of Washington entering into an agreement that disadvantages the United States to the exclusive benefit of other countries, leaving American workers — who I love — and taxpayers to absorb the cost in terms of lost jobs, lower wages, shuttered factories, and vastly diminished economic production.  Thus, as of today, the United States will cease all implementation of the non-binding Paris Accord and the draconian financial and economic burdens the agreement imposes on our country.  This includes ending the implementation of the nationally determined contribution and, very importantly, the Green Climate Fund which is costing the United States a vast fortune.  Compliance with the terms of the Paris Accord and the onerous energy restrictions it has placed on the United States could cost America as much as 2.7 million lost jobs by 2025 according to the National Economic Research Associates.  This includes 440,000 fewer manufacturing jobs — not what we need — believe me, this is not what we need — including automobile jobs, and the further decimation of vital American industries on which countless communities rely.  They rely for so much, and we would be giving them so little.  According to this same study, by 2040, compliance with the commitments put into place by the previous administration would cut production for the following sectors:  paper down 12 percent; cement down 23 percent; iron and steel down 38 percent; coal — and I happen to love the coal miners — down 86 percent; natural gas down 31 percent.  The cost to the economy at this time would be close to $3 trillion in lost GDP and 6.5 million industrial jobs, while households would have $7,000 less income and, in many cases, much worse than that.  Not only does this deal subject our citizens to harsh economic restrictions, it fails to live up to our environmental ideals.  As someone who cares deeply about the environment, which I do, I cannot in good conscience support a deal that punishes the United States — which is what it does -– the world’s leader in environmental protection, while imposing no meaningful obligations on the world’s leading polluters.  For example, under the agreement, China will be able to increase these emissions by a staggering number of years — 13.  They can do whatever they want for 13 years.  Not us.  India makes its participation contingent on receiving billions and billions and billions of dollars in foreign aid from developed countries.  There are many other examples.  But the bottom line is that the Paris Accord is very unfair, at the highest level, to the United States.  Further, while the current agreement effectively blocks the development of clean coal in America — which it does, and the mines are starting to open up.  We’re having a big opening in two weeks.  Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, so many places.  A big opening of a brand-new mine.  It’s unheard of.  For many, many years, that hasn’t happened.  They asked me if I’d go.  I’m going to try.  China will be allowed to build hundreds of additional coal plants.  So we can’t build the plants, but they can, according to this agreement.  India will be allowed to double its coal production by 2020.  Think of it:  India can double their coal production.  We’re supposed to get rid of ours.  Even Europe is allowed to continue construction of coal plants.  In short, the agreement doesn’t eliminate coal jobs, it just transfers those jobs out of America and the United States, and ships them to foreign countries.  This agreement is less about the climate and more about other countries gaining a financial advantage over the United States.  The rest of the world applauded when we signed the Paris Agreement — they went wild; they were so happy — for the simple reason that it put our country, the United States of America, which we all love, at a very, very big economic disadvantage.  A cynic would say the obvious reason for economic competitors and their wish to see us remain in the agreement is so that we continue to suffer this self-inflicted major economic wound.  We would find it very hard to compete with other countries from other parts of the world.  We have among the most abundant energy reserves on the planet, sufficient to lift millions of America’s poorest workers out of poverty.  Yet, under this agreement, we are effectively putting these reserves under lock and key, taking away the great wealth of our nation — it’s great wealth, it’s phenomenal wealth; not so long ago, we had no idea we had such wealth — and leaving millions and millions of families trapped in poverty and joblessness.  The agreement is a massive redistribution of United States wealth to other countries.  At 1 percent growth, renewable sources of energy can meet some of our domestic demand, but at 3 or 4 percent growth, which I expect, we need all forms of available American energy, or our country — (applause) — will be at grave risk of brownouts and blackouts, our businesses will come to a halt in many cases, and the American family will suffer the consequences in the form of lost jobs and a very diminished quality of life.  Even if the Paris Agreement were implemented in full, with total compliance from all nations, it is estimated it would only produce a two-tenths of one degree — think of that; this much — Celsius reduction in global temperature by the year 2100.  Tiny, tiny amount.  In fact, 14 days of carbon emissions from China alone would wipe out the gains from America — and this is an incredible statistic — would totally wipe out the gains from America’s expected reductions in the year 2030, after we have had to spend billions and billions of dollars, lost jobs, closed factories, and suffered much higher energy costs for our businesses and for our homes.  As the Wall Street Journal wrote this morning:  “The reality is that withdrawing is in America’s economic interest and won’t matter much to the climate.”  The United States, under the Trump administration, will continue to be the cleanest and most environmentally friendly country on Earth.  We’ll be the cleanest.  We’re going to have the cleanest air.  We’re going to have the cleanest water.  We will be environmentally friendly, but we’re not going to put our businesses out of work and we’re not going to lose our jobs.  We’re going to grow; we’re going to grow rapidly.  (Applause.)  And I think you just read — it just came out minutes ago, the small business report — small businesses as of just now are booming, hiring people.  One of the best reports they’ve seen in many years.  I’m willing to immediately work with Democratic leaders to either negotiate our way back into Paris, under the terms that are fair to the United States and its workers, or to negotiate a new deal that protects our country and its taxpayers.  (Applause.)  So if the obstructionists want to get together with me, let’s make them non-obstructionists.  We will all sit down, and we will get back into the deal.  And we’ll make it good, and we won’t be closing up our factories, and we won’t be losing our jobs.  And we’ll sit down with the Democrats and all of the people that represent either the Paris Accord or something that we can do that’s much better than the Paris Accord.  And I think the people of our country will be thrilled, and I think then the people of the world will be thrilled.  But until we do that, we’re out of the agreement.  I will work to ensure that America remains the world’s leader on environmental issues, but under a framework that is fair and where the burdens and responsibilities are equally shared among the many nations all around the world.  No responsible leader can put the workers — and the people — of their country at this debilitating and tremendous disadvantage.  The fact that the Paris deal hamstrings the United States, while empowering some of the world’s top polluting countries, should dispel any doubt as to the real reason why foreign lobbyists wish to keep our magnificent country tied up and bound down by this agreement:  It’s to give their country an economic edge over the United States.  That’s not going to happen while I’m President.  I’m sorry.  (Applause.)  My job as President is to do everything within my power to give America a level playing field and to create the economic, regulatory and tax structures that make America the most prosperous and productive country on Earth, and with the highest standard of living and the highest standard of environmental protection.  Our tax bill is moving along in Congress, and I believe it’s doing very well.  I think a lot of people will be very pleasantly surprised.  The Republicans are working very, very hard.  We’d love to have support from the Democrats, but we may have to go it alone.  But it’s going very well.  The Paris Agreement handicaps the United States economy in order to win praise from the very foreign capitals and global activists that have long sought to gain wealth at our country’s expense.  They don’t put America first.  I do, and I always will.  (Applause.)  The same nations asking us to stay in the agreement are the countries that have collectively cost America trillions of dollars through tough trade practices and, in many cases, lax contributions to our critical military alliance.  You see what’s happening.  It’s pretty obvious to those that want to keep an open mind.  At what point does America get demeaned?  At what point do they start laughing at us as a country?   We want fair treatment for its citizens, and we want fair treatment for our taxpayers.  We don’t want other leaders and other countries laughing at us anymore.  And they won’t be.  They won’t be.  I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris.  (Applause.)  I promised I would exit or renegotiate any deal which fails to serve America’s interests.  Many trade deals will soon be under renegotiation.  Very rarely do we have a deal that works for this country, but they’ll soon be under renegotiation.  The process has begun from day one.  But now we’re down to business.  Beyond the severe energy restrictions inflicted by the Paris Accord, it includes yet another scheme to redistribute wealth out of the United States through the so-called Green Climate Fund — nice name — which calls for developed countries to send $100 billion to developing countries all on top of America’s existing and massive foreign aid payments.  So we’re going to be paying billions and billions and billions of dollars, and we’re already way ahead of anybody else.  Many of the other countries haven’t spent anything, and many of them will never pay one dime.  The Green Fund would likely obligate the United States to commit potentially tens of billions of dollars of which the United States has already handed over $1 billion — nobody else is even close; most of them haven’t even paid anything — including funds raided out of America’s budget for the war against terrorism.  That’s where they came.  Believe me, they didn’t come from me.  They came just before I came into office.  Not good.  And not good the way they took the money.  In 2015, the United Nation’s departing top climate officials reportedly described the $100 billion per year as “peanuts,” and stated that “the $100 billion is the tail that wags the dog.”  In 2015, the Green Climate Fund’s executive director reportedly stated that estimated funding needed would increase to $450 billion per year after 2020.  And nobody even knows where the money is going to.  Nobody has been able to say, where is it going to?  Of course, the world’s top polluters have no affirmative obligations under the Green Fund, which we terminated.  America is $20 trillion in debt.  Cash-strapped cities cannot hire enough police officers or fix vital infrastructure.  Millions of our citizens are out of work.  And yet, under the Paris Accord, billions of dollars that ought to be invested right here in America will be sent to the very countries that have taken our factories and our jobs away from us.  So think of that.  There are serious legal and constitutional issues as well.  Foreign leaders in Europe, Asia, and across the world should not have more to say with respect to the U.S. economy than our own citizens and their elected representatives.  Thus, our withdrawal from the agreement represents a reassertion of America’s sovereignty.  (Applause.)  Our Constitution is unique among all the nations of the world, and it is my highest obligation and greatest honor to protect it.  And I will.  Staying in the agreement could also pose serious obstacles for the United States as we begin the process of unlocking the restrictions on America’s abundant energy reserves, which we have started very strongly.  It would once have been unthinkable that an international agreement could prevent the United States from conducting its own domestic economic affairs, but this is the new reality we face if we do not leave the agreement or if we do not negotiate a far better deal.  The risks grow as historically these agreements only tend to become more and more ambitious over time.  In other words, the Paris framework is a starting point — as bad as it is — not an end point.  And exiting the agreement protects the United States from future intrusions on the United States’ sovereignty and massive future legal liability.  Believe me, we have massive legal liability if we stay in.  As President, I have one obligation, and that obligation is to the American people.  The Paris Accord would undermine our economy, hamstring our workers, weaken our sovereignty, impose unacceptable legal risks, and put us at a permanent disadvantage to the other countries of the world.  It is time to exit the Paris Accord — (applause) — and time to pursue a new deal that protects the environment, our companies, our citizens, and our country.  It is time to put Youngstown, Ohio, Detroit, Michigan, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania — along with many, many other locations within our great country — before Paris, France.  It is time to make America great again.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  Very important.  I’d like to ask Scott Pruitt, who most of you know and respect, as I do, just to say a few words.  Hello, everybody.  Great to be back in New York with all of our friends, and some great friends outside the building, I must tell you.  I want to thank all of our distinguished guests who are with us today, including members of our Cabinet:  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, OMB Director Mick Mulvaney and, of course, our Transportation Secretary — who is doing a fabulous job — Elaine Chao.  Thank you all for doing a really incredible and creative job on what we’re going to be discussing today, which is infrastructure.  We’ve just had a great set of briefings upstairs on our infrastructure agenda.  My administration is working every day to deliver the world-class infrastructure that our people deserve and, frankly, that our country deserves.  That’s why I just signed a new executive order to dramatically reform the nation’s badly broken infrastructure permitting process.  Just blocks away is the Empire State Building.  It took 11 months to build the Empire State Building.  But today, it can take as long as a decade and much more than that — many, many stories where it takes 20 and 25 years just to get approvals to start construction of a fairly routine highway.  Highway builders must get up to 16 different approvals involving nine different federal agencies governed by 29 different statutes.  One agency alone can stall a project for many, many years, and even decades.  Not only does this cost our economy billions of dollars, but it also denies our citizens the safe and modern infrastructure they deserve.  This overregulated permitting process is a massive self-inflicted wound on our country — it’s disgraceful — denying our people much-needed investments in their community.  And I just want to show you this because it was just shown to me, and I said, I think I’m going to show it to the media — both real and fake media, by the way.  This is what it takes to get something approved today.  Elaine, you see that?  So this is what it takes.  Permitting process flowchart — that’s a flowchart.  So that can go out to 20 years.  This shows about 10, but that can go out to about 20 years to get something approved.  This is for a highway.  I’ve seen a highway recently in a certain state — I won’t mention its name — 17 years.  I could have built it for four or five million dollars without the permitting process.  It cost hundreds of millions of dollars, but it took 17 years to get it approved and many, many, many, many pages of environmental impact studies.  This is what we will bring it down to.  This is less than two years.  This is going to happen quickly.  That’s what I’m signing today.  This will be less than two years for a highway.  So it’s going to be quick, it’s going to be a very streamlined process.  And, by the way, if it doesn’t meet environmental safeguards, we’re not going to approve it.  Very simple.  We’re not going to approve it.  Maybe this one will say, let’s throw the other one away.  Would anybody like it from the media?  (Laughter.)  Would anybody like that long, beautiful chart?  You can have it.  So my executive order also requires agencies to work together efficiently by requiring one lead agency for each major infrastructure project.  It also holds agencies accountable if they fail to streamline their review process.  So each agency is accountable.  We’re going to get infrastructure built quickly, inexpensively — relatively speaking — and the permitting process will go very, very quickly.  No longer will we tolerate one job-killing delay after another.  No longer will we accept a broken system that benefits consultants and lobbyists at the expense of hardworking Americans.  Now, I knew the process very well — probably better than anybody.  I had to get permits for this building and many of the buildings I built — all of the buildings I built in Manhattan and many other places.  And I will tell you that the consultants are rich people.  They go around making it very difficult.  They lobby Congress, they lobby state governments, city governments to make it very difficult so that you have to hire consultants, and that you have to take years and pay them a fortune.  So we’re streamlining the process, and we won’t be having so much of that anymore.  No longer will we allow the infrastructure of our magnificent country to crumble and decay.  While protecting the environment, we will build gleaming new roads, bridges, railways, waterways, tunnels, and highways.  We will rebuild our country with American workers, American iron, American aluminum, American steel.  We will create millions of new jobs and make millions of American dreams come true.  Our infrastructure will again be the best in the world.  We used to have the greatest infrastructure anywhere in the world, and today we’re like a third-world country.  We are literally like a third-world country.  Our infrastructure will again be the best, and we will restore the pride in our communities, our nation, and all over the United States we’ll be proud again.  So I want to thank everybody for being here.  God bless you.  God bless the United States.  And if you have any questions, we have — Mick, you can come up here please.  Come on up.  Mick Mulvaney.  If you have any questions, please feel free to ask.  Because they’re not taking their job seriously as it pertains to this country.  And we want jobs, manufacturing in this country.  If you look at some of those people that you’re talking about they’re outside of the country, they’re having a lot of their product made outsider.  If you look at Merck as an example, take a look where — excuse me, excuse me — take a look at where their product is made.  It’s made outside of our country.  We want products made in the country.  Now, I have to tell you, some of the folks that will leave, they’re leaving out of embarrassment because they make their products outside.  And I’ve been lecturing them, including the gentleman that you’re referring to, about you have to bring it back to this country.  You can’t do it necessarily in Ireland and all of these other places.  You have to bring this work back to this country.  That’s what I want.  I want manufacturing to be back into the United States so that American workers can benefit.  I didn’t wait long.  I didn’t wait long.  I wanted to make sure, unlike most politicians, that what I said was correct — not make a quick statement.  The statement I made on Saturday, the first statement, was a fine statement.  But you don’t make statements that direct unless you know the facts.  It takes a little while to get the facts.  You still don’t know the facts.  And it’s a very, very important process to me, and it’s a very important statement.  So I don’t want to go quickly and just make a statement for the sake of making a political statement.  I want to know the facts.  If you go back to  I brought it.  I brought it.  I brought it.  As I said on — remember, Saturday — we condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry, and violence.  It has no place in America.  And then it went on from there.  Now, here’s the thing —  Excuse me.  Excuse me.  Take it nice and easy.  Here’s the thing:  When I make a statement, I like to be correct.  I want the facts.  This event just happened.  In fact, a lot of the event didn’t even happen yet, as we were speaking.  This event just happened.  Before I make a statement, I need the facts.  So I don’t want to rush into a statement.  So making the statement when I made it was excellent.  In fact, the young woman, who I hear was a fantastic young woman, and it was on NBC — her mother wrote me and said through, I guess, Twitter, social media, the nicest things.  And I very much appreciated that.  I hear she was a fine — really, actually, an incredible young woman.  But her mother, on Twitter, thanked me for what I said.  And honestly, if the press were not fake, and if it was honest, the press would have said what I said was very nice.  But unlike you, and unlike — excuse me, unlike you and unlike the media, before I make a statement, I like to know the facts.  Not at all.  I think the country — look, you take a look.  I’ve created over a million jobs since I’m President.  The country is booming.  The stock market is setting records.  We have the highest employment numbers we’ve ever had in the history of our country.  We’re doing record business.  We have the highest levels of enthusiasm.  So the head of Walmart, who I know — who’s a very nice guy — was making a political statement.  I mean —  I’d do it the same way.  And you know why?  Because I want to make sure, when I make a statement, that the statement is correct.  And there was no way — there was no way of making a correct statement that early.  I had to see the facts, unlike a lot of reporters.  Unlike a lot of reporters —  I didn’t know David Duke was there.  I wanted to see the facts.  And the facts, as they started coming out, were very well stated.  In fact, everybody said, “His statement was beautiful.  If he would have made it sooner, that would have been good.”  I couldn’t have made it sooner because I didn’t know all of the facts.  Frankly, people still don’t know all of the facts.  It was very important — excuse me, excuse me — it was very important to me to get the facts out and correctly.  Because if I would have made a fast statement — and the first statement was made without knowing much, other than what we were seeing.  The second statement was made after, with knowledge, with great knowledge.  There are still things — excuse me — there are still things that people don’t know.  I want to make a statement with knowledge.  I wanted to know the facts.  Well, I think the driver of the car is a disgrace to himself, his family, and this country.  And that is — you can call it terrorism.  You can call it murder.  You can call it whatever you want.  I would just call it as “the fastest one to come up with a good verdict.”  That’s what I’d call it.  Because there is a question:  Is it murder?  Is it terrorism?  And then you get into legal semantics.  The driver of the car is a murderer.  And what he did was a horrible, horrible, inexcusable thing.  Well, we’ll see.  Look, look — I like Mr. Bannon.  He’s a friend of mine.  But Mr. Bannon came on very late.  You know that.  I went through 17 senators, governors, and I won all the primaries.  Mr. Bannon came on very much later than that.  And I like him, he’s a good man.  He is not a racist, I can tell you that.  He’s a good person.  He actually gets very unfair press in that regard.  But we’ll see what happens with Mr. Bannon.  But he’s a good person, and I think the press treats him, frankly, very unfairly.  Okay, what about the alt-left that came charging at — excuse me, what about the alt-left that came charging at the, as you say, the alt-right?  Do they have any semblance of guilt?  Let me ask you this:  What about the fact that they came charging with clubs in their hands, swinging clubs?  Do they have any problem?  I think they do.  As far as I’m concerned, that was a horrible, horrible day.  I will tell you something.  I watched those very closely — much more closely than you people watched it.  And you have — you had a group on one side that was bad, and you had a group on the other side that was also very violent.  And nobody wants to say that, but I’ll say it right now.  You had a group — you had a group on the other side that came charging in, without a permit, and they were very, very violent.  Those people — all of those people –excuse me, I’ve condemned neo-Nazis.  I’ve condemned many different groups.  But not all of those people were neo-Nazis, believe me.  Not all of those people were white supremacists by any stretch.  Those people were also there because they wanted to protest the taking down of a statue of Robert E. Lee.  Excuse me.  If you take a look at some of the groups, and you see — and you’d know it if you were honest reporters, which in many cases you’re not — but many of those people were there to protest the taking down of the statue of Robert E. Lee.  So this week it’s Robert E. Lee.  I noticed that Stonewall Jackson is coming down.  I wonder, is it George Washington next week?  And is it Thomas Jefferson the week after?  You know, you really do have to ask yourself, where does it stop?  But they were there to protest — excuse me, if you take a look, the night before they were there to protest the taking down of the statue of Robert E. Lee.  Infrastructure question.  Go ahead.  I think they’ve gotten better or the same.  Look, they’ve been frayed for a long time.  And you can ask President Obama about that, because he’d make speeches about it.  But I believe that the fact that I brought in — it will be soon — millions of jobs — you see where companies are moving back into our country — I think that’s going to have a tremendous, positive impact on race relations.  We have companies coming back into our country.  We have two car companies that just announced.  We have Foxconn in Wisconsin just announced.  We have many companies, I say, pouring back into the country.  I think that’s going to have a huge, positive impact on race relations.  You know why?  It’s jobs.  What people want now, they want jobs.  They want great jobs with good pay, and when they have that, you watch how race relations will be.  And I’ll tell you, we’re spending a lot of money on the inner cities.  We’re fixing the inner cities.  We’re doing far more than anybody has done with respect to the inner cities.  It’s a priority for me, and it’s very important.  I’m not putting anybody on a moral plane.  What I’m saying is this:  You had a group on one side and you had a group on the other, and they came at each other with clubs — and it was vicious and it was horrible.  And it was a horrible thing to watch.  But there is another side.  There was a group on this side.  You can call them the left — you just called them the left — that came violently attacking the other group.  So you can say what you want, but that’s the way it is.  Yes, I think there’s blame on both sides.  If you look at both sides — I think there’s blame on both sides.  And I have no doubt about it, and you don’t have any doubt about it either.  And if you reported it accurately, you would say.  Excuse me, excuse me.  They didn’t put themselves — and you had some very bad people in that group, but you also had people that were very fine people, on both sides.  You had people in that group.  Excuse me, excuse me.  I saw the same pictures as you did.  You had people in that group that were there to protest the taking down of, to them, a very, very important statue and the renaming of a park from Robert E. Lee to another name.  George Washington was a slave owner.  Was George Washington a slave owner?  So will George Washington now lose his status?  Are we going to take down —  Excuse me, are we going to take down statues to George Washington?  How about Thomas Jefferson?  What do you think of Thomas Jefferson?  You like him?  Okay, good.  Are we going to take down the statue?  Because he was a major slave owner.  Now, are we going to take down his statue?  So you know what, it’s fine.  You’re changing history.  You’re changing culture.  And you had people — and I’m not talking about the neo-Nazis and the white nationalists — because they should be condemned totally.  But you had many people in that group other than neo-Nazis and white nationalists.  Okay?  And the press has treated them absolutely unfairly.  Now, in the other group also, you had some fine people.  But you also had troublemakers, and you see them come with the black outfits and with the helmets, and with the baseball bats.  You had a lot of bad people in the other group.  No, no.  There were people in that rally — and I looked the night before — if you look, there were people protesting very quietly the taking down of the statue of Robert E. Lee.  I’m sure in that group there were some bad ones.  The following day it looked like they had some rough, bad people — neo-Nazis, white nationalists, whatever you want to call them.  But you had a lot of people in that group that were there to innocently protest, and very legally protest — because I don’t know if you know, they had a permit.  The other group didn’t have a permit.  So I only tell you this:  There are two sides to a story.  I thought what took place was a horrible moment for our country — a horrible moment.  But there are two sides to the country.  Does anybody have a final —  Well, you know, I’ll tell you.  We came very close with healthcare.  Unfortunately, John McCain decided to vote against it at the last minute.  You’ll have to ask John McCain why he did that.  But we came very close to healthcare.  We will end up getting healthcare.  But we’ll get the infrastructure.  And actually, infrastructure is something that I think we’ll have bipartisan support on.  I actually think Democrats will go along with the infrastructure.  I thought that the statement put out — the mother’s statement I thought was a beautiful statement.  I will tell you, it was something that I really appreciated.  I thought it was terrific.  And, really, under the kind of stress that she’s under and the heartache that she’s under, I thought putting out that statement, to me, was really something.  I won’t forget it.  Thank you, all, very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  I own a house in Charlottesville.  Does anyone know I own a house in Charlottesville?  It’s in Charlottesville.  You’ll see.  It is the winery.  I mean, I know a lot about Charlottesville.  Charlottesville is a great place that’s been very badly hurt over the last couple of days.  I own, actually, one of the largest wineries in the United States.  It’s in Charlottesville.  Well, I think jobs can have a big impact.  I think if we continue to create jobs — over a million, substantially more than a million.  And you see just the other day, the car companies coming in with Foxconn.  I think if we continue to create jobs at levels that I’m creating jobs, I think that’s going to have a tremendous impact — positive impact on race relations.  And the other thing — very important — I believe wages will start going up.  They haven’t gone up for a long time.  I believe wages now — because the economy is doing so well with respect to employment and unemployment, I believe wages will start to go up.  I think that will have a tremendously positive impact on race relations.  Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you very much. It’s so nice. And we appreciate it. And all of the people outside that were waving proudly the American flag — believe me, we appreciate it very much.  I want to thank Jerry Cook, Steve Burney — (applause) — and all of the tremendous employees here at the Loren Cook Company for hosting us today. Where is Jerry? Where is Jerry? (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you, Jerry. What a job. I’ve heard so much about you. It’s a great honor to know you, Jerry. Thank you.  I also want to welcome the many distinguished guests who are here with us for this very important event: Secretary of the Treasury, Steve Mnuchin. (Applause.) Thank you, Steve. Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross. (Applause.) Small Business Administrator — which, by the way, is a very large business, I will tell you that — Linda McMahon, a friend of mine. (Applause.) And from the purely political world, a really great friend who did such an incredible job with his beautiful wife at the inauguration, Senator Roy Blunt. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.) Where’s Roy? Thank you, Roy.  Governor Greitens is here, who is doing some job. (Applause.) Thank you, Governor. Special. Lieutenant Governor Parson. Lieutenant Governor, thank you, Lieutenant Governor. And our great members of Commerce [Congress], I want to thank you all for coming. There are so many. I was asking the Governor and Roy, I said, do you think I should announce them all? I have so many. But I’m honored that they’re here.  Representative Sam Graves. (Applause.) Representative Vicky Hartzler, who has been terrific. (Applause.) My friend for a long time, and just somebody that he liked me from the beginning and I liked him, Billy Long. Where’s Billy? (Applause.) Billy. Right, Billy? Right from the beginning. Blaine Luetkemeyer — where’s Blaine? Good. Thank you, Blaine. (Applause.) Representative Jason Smith. (Applause.) Jason, thank you for everything, Jason. Representative Ann Wagner. Hi, Ann. Good job, Ann. (Applause.)  And, I don’t know, we have so many more. Anybody I forgot? Right? Everything okay? Good, I got it. You, I remember more than anybody. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it. And to the congressmen and congresswomen, we very much appreciate you all being here. Thank you very much. (Applause.)  Before we begin, I’d like to take a few moments to discuss the deeply tragic situation in Texas and Louisiana. As we all know, our Gulf Coast was hit over the weekend with a devastating hurricane of historic proportion. Torrential rains and terrible flooding continue to pose a grave danger to life and to property. Our first responders have been doing absolutely heroic work to shepherd people out of harm’s way, and their courage and devotion has saved countless lives. They represent truly the very best of America. (Applause.)  We must be vigilant. We must protect the lives of our people. I was on the ground in Texas yesterday to meet with Governor Abbott — who is doing, by the way, and incredible job — and local officials so that we could coordinate the very big and unprecedented federal response.  In difficult times such as these, we see the true character of the American people: their strength, their love, and their resolve. We see friend helping friend, neighbor helping neighbor, and stranger helping stranger. And together, we will endure and we will overcome. (Applause.)  To those affected by this storm, we are praying for you and we are here with you every single step of the way. And I can speak, I know, for the people in this room — every step of the way. (Applause.)  To those Americans who have lost loved ones: All of America is grieving with you, and our hearts are joined with yours forever. The citizens of Texas and the Gulf Coast need all the prayers, support, and resources our communities have to offer. Recovery will be tough, but I have seen the resilience of the American spirit firsthand, all over this country.  To the people of Houston, and across Texas and Louisiana: We are here with you today, we are with you tomorrow, and we will be with you every single day after to restore, recover, and rebuild.  As our thoughts and prayers remain firmly with the citizens and our fellow people — people — great, great people — all affected by this tragedy. We’re also glad to be back in the heartland with the very, very fine folks of Missouri. (Applause.)  And I said to Senator Blunt and I said to Billy Long on the plane coming in — can I say “Missouri,” or should I say “Missouruh”? Okay? And they said, whatever you want is okay. So I said, good. But I’m especially pleased to be here in Springfield, the birthplace of a great American icon, the legendary Route 66. Who would have known that? (Applause.)  This is the place where the “Main Street of America” got its start, and this is where America’s main street will begin its big, beautiful comeback that — you are seeing it right now. This is a comeback of historic proportions. You’re seeing it happen right now. (Applause.) Right? You’re seeing it.  We’re here today to launch our plans to bring back Main Street by reducing the crushing tax burden on our companies and on our workers. (Applause.) Our self-destructive tax code costs Americans millions and millions of jobs, trillions of dollars, and billions of hours spent on compliance and paperwork. And you have seen what’s happening with regulations — they’re going fast. We need regulations, but many of them are unnecessary, and they’re going fast. (Applause.)  That is why the foundation of our job creation agenda is to fundamentally reform our tax code for the first time in more than 30 years. I want to work with Congress, Republicans and Democrats alike, on a plan that is pro-growth, pro-jobs, pro-worker — and pro-American. (Applause.)  There is no more fitting place to launch this effort than right here in the American heartland, surrounded by hardworking men and women whose skill, determination, and drive are truly second to none. (Applause.)  And, by the way, before I start, Ivanka Trump — I see my beautiful daughter is in the audience. Stand up, honey. (Applause.) She’s working very hard. I’m very proud of Ivanka.  For many decades, Route 66 captured the American spirit. The communities along this historic route were a vivid symbol of America’s booming industry. Truck drivers hauled made-in-America goods along this vital artery of commerce. Families passed through bustling towns on their way to explore the great American West. And high-quality manufacturing jobs lifted up communities, gave Americans a paycheck that could support a family. Mr. Cook is a great example of the people that do it. (Applause.) Stand up. Stand up Mr. Cook. Stand up. (Applause.) I think they like you. And provided millions of our fellow citizens with the pride and dignity that comes with work.  But, in recent years, millions of Americans have watched that prosperity slip away in the rearview mirror. And it wasn’t pleasant to watch, especially for me. I would sit back — I was in business — and I could see what was happening. It wasn’t good.  If we want to renew our prosperity, and to restore opportunity, then we must reduce the tax burden on our companies and on our workers. (Applause.)  In the last 10 years, our economy has grown at only around two percent a year. If you look at other countries and you look at what their GDP is, they’re unhappy when it’s seven, eight, nine. And I speak to them — leaders of the countries — how are you doing? “Not well, not well.” Why? “GDP is down to seven percent.” And I’m saying, we were hitting one percent just a number of months ago. So we’re going to change that around, folks, that I can tell you. And we’re going change it around fast. (Applause.)  And today — a very appropriate day that this should happen — we just announced that we hit three percent in GDP. It just came out. (Applause.) And on a yearly basis, as you know, the last administration, during an eight-year period, never hit three percent. So we’re really on our way.  If we achieve sustained three percent growth, that means 12 million new jobs and $10 trillion dollars of new economic activity over the next decade. That’s some numbers. (Applause.) And I happen to be one that thinks we can go much higher than three percent. There’s no reason why we shouldn’t. (Applause.)  So this is our once-in-a-generation opportunity to deliver real tax reform for everyday hardworking Americans, and I am fully committed to working with Congress to get this job done. And I don’t want to be disappointed by Congress, do you understand me? Do you understand? (Applause.)  Congress — I think Congress is going to make a comeback. I hope so. (Laughter.) I tell you what, the United States is counting on it. (Applause.)  Here are my four principles for tax reform: First, we need a tax code that is simple, fair, and easy to understand. (Applause.) That means getting rid of the loopholes and complexity that primarily benefit the wealthiest Americans and special interests.  Our last major tax rewrite was 31 years ago. It eliminated dozens of loopholes and special interest tax breaks, reduced the number of tax brackets from fifteen to two, and lowered tax rates for both individuals and businesses. At the time, it was really something special.  Since then, our tax laws have tripled in size, and the tax code itself now spans more than 2,600 pages, and most of it is not understandable. Tax rates have increased, and special interest loopholes have crept back into the system. The tax code is now a massive source of complexity and frustration for tens of millions of Americans.  In 1935, the basic 1040 form that most people file had two simple pages of instructions. Today, that basic form has one hundred pages of instructions, and it’s pretty complex stuff. The tax code is so complicated that more than 90 percent of Americans need professional help to do their own taxes.  This enormous complexity is very unfair. It disadvantages ordinary Americans who don’t have an army of accountants while benefitting deep-pocketed special interests. And most importantly, this is wrong. (Applause.) Thank you.  First and foremost, our tax system should benefit loyal, hardworking Americans and their families. (Applause.) That is why tax reform must dramatically simplify the tax code, eliminate special interest loopholes — and I’m speaking against myself when I do this, I have to tell you. And I might be speaking against Mr. Cook, and we’re both okay with it, is that right? It’s crazy. We’re speaking — maybe we shouldn’t be doing this, you know? (Laughter.) But we’re doing the right thing. (Applause.) True. And allow the vast majority of our citizens to file their taxes on a single, simple page without having to hire an accountant.  Second, we need a competitive tax code that creates more jobs and higher wages for Americans. It’s time to give American workers the pay raise that they’ve been looking for for many, many years. (Applause.)  In 1986, Ronald Reagan led the world by cutting our corporate tax rate to 34 percent. That was below the average rate for developed countries at the time. Everybody thought that was a monumental thing that happened. But then, under this pro-America system, our economy boomed. It just went beautifully — right through the roof. The middle class thrived and median family income increased.  Other countries saw the success. They looked at us. They saw — what is America doing? What’s happening with the United States? And they acted very swiftly by cutting their taxes lower, and lower, and lower, and reforming their tax systems to be far more competitive than ours.  Over the past 30 years, the average business tax rate among developed nations fell from 45 percent to less than 24 percent. And some countries have an unbelievably low tax, including, by the way, China and some others that are highly competitive, and really doing very well against us. They are taking us, frankly, to the cleaners. So we must — we have no choice — we must lower our taxes.  And your Senator, Claire McCaskill, she must do this for you. And if she doesn’t do it for you, you have to have to vote her out of office. (Applause.) She’s got to make that commitment. She’s got to make that commitment. If she doesn’t do it, you just can’t do this anymore, with the obstruction and the obstructionists. If we don’t get tax cuts and reform approved, potentially, the biggest ever — we are looking for the biggest ever — jobs and our country cannot take off the way they should, and it could be much worse than that. But, at a minimum, they won’t take off the way they should.  The Dems are looking to obstruct tax cuts and tax reform, just like they obstructed so many other things, including administration appointments and healthcare. Not one vote. We got not one vote to try and fix healthcare and get rid of Obamacare.  The strategy of our economic rivals has worked. They made their taxes lower — and far lower, in many cases, than ours — and jobs left our country. Large corporations changed their business models by exporting jobs to other countries and then shipping their goods back to the United States, where they’d make massive profits, and they wouldn’t be paying tax to us either. So we lost the jobs, we lost the taxes, they closed the buildings, they closed the plants and factories. We got nothing but unemployment. We got nothing.  Other businesses — even classic American brands — switched their headquarters to foreign countries. Because of this and other reasons, like weak borders, America remains stuck in the past. Although I have to tell you, we have General Kelly here today, and we stopped 78 percent — going up to 80 percent — on the border traffic coming through, in just a short period of time. (Applause.) He has done some job. A whole different world out there right now.  Today, we are still taxing our businesses at 35 percent, and it’s way more than that. And think of it: In some cases, way above 40 percent when you include state and local taxes, in various states. The United States is now behind France, behind Germany, behind Canada, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and many other nations. Also, with these countries and almost every country, we have massive trade deficits — numbers that you would not believe.  But this administration is going to fix that. One by one, we’re fixing it. We’re working right now on NAFTA — the horrible, terrible NAFTA deal that took so much business out of your state and out of your cities and towns, and we’re working on it. Let’s see what happens. (Applause.)  Mexico is not happy. (Laughter.) But as I told them, you made a lot of money for a lot of years and everybody left you alone. We got to change this deal. And hopefully we can renegotiate it. But if we can’t, we’ll terminate it and we’ll start all over again with a real deal. (Applause.)  So when it comes to the business tax, we are dead last. Can you believe that? So this cannot be allowed to continue any longer. America must lead the way, not follow from behind.  We have gone from a tax rate that is lower than our economic competitors, to one that is more than 60 percent higher. We have totally surrendered our competitive edge to other countries. We have totally surrendered. We’re not surrendering anymore. (Applause.)  Ideally — and I say this for our Secretary of the Treasury — we would like to bring our business tax rate down to 15 percent, which would make our tax rate lower than most countries, but still, by no means the lowest, unfortunately, in the world. But it would make us highly competitive.  In other words, foreign companies have more than a 60 percent tax advantage over American companies. They can pay their workers more, sell their products and services at lower cost, and still make more money than their U.S. competitors.  We cannot restore our wealth if we continue to put our businesses at such a tremendous disadvantage. We must reduce the tax rate on American businesses so they keep jobs in America, create jobs in America, and compete for workers right here in America — the America we love. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you very much.  Because when businesses compete for labor, your wages will go up. Lower taxes on American business means higher wages for American workers, and it means more products made right here in the USA. (Applause.)  When I was growing up, I always used to see the signs, and it was always stamped on the product: Made in the USA. You don’t see it anymore. We’re going to go back to Made in the USA — Made in the USA.” (Applause.)  The third principle for tax reform is a crucial one: tax relief for middle-class families. (Applause.) In a way — and I’ve been saying this for a long time — they’ve been sort of the forgotten people, but they’re not forgotten any longer. I can tell you that. (Applause.)  We will lower taxes for middle-income Americans so they can keep more of their hard-earned paychecks, and they can do lots of things with those paychecks. And that really means buying product ideally made in this country, but that means they’ll go out, and they’ll spend their money. And it will be a beautiful thing to watch. This includes helping parents afford childcare and the cost of raising a family. That’s so important to Ivanka Trump. (Applause.) Very, very important to everybody in this room, but so important to my daughter. It’s one of her real big beliefs. And she’s very committed to that. Right, Ivanka?  We believe that ordinary Americans know better than Washington how to spend their own money, and we want to help them take home as much of their money as possible and then spend it. (Applause.) So they’ll keep their money. They’ll spend their money. They’ll buy our product. Our factories will be moving again. Companies are going to move back into our country, jobs are going to prosper, and our country is going to be just like it says on that beautiful red hat — it says: Make America Great Again. That’s what we’re going to do. (Applause.) Right?  Fourth and finally, we want to bring back trillions of dollars in wealth that’s parked overseas. Because of our high tax rate and horrible, outdated, bureaucratic rules, large companies that do business overseas will often park their profits offshore to avoid paying a high United States tax if the money is brought back home. So they leave the money over there.  The amount of money we’re talking about is anywhere from $3 trillion to $5 trillion. Can you believe that? By making it less punitive for companies to bring back this money, and by making the process far less bureaucratic and difficult, we can return trillions and trillions of dollars to our economy and spur billions of dollars in new investments in our struggling communities and throughout our nation.  It’s time to invest in our country, to rebuild our communities, and to hire our great American workers. (Applause.)  My administration is embracing a new economic model. It’s called very simply: The American Model. Under this system, we will encourage companies to hire and grow in America, to raise wages for American workers, and to help rebuild our American cities and communities. That is how we will all succeed and grow together, as one team, with one shared sense of purpose, and one glorious American destiny. (Applause.)  So today I’m calling on all members of Congress — Democrat, Republican and independent — to support pro-American tax reform. They have to do it. It’s time. (Applause.) They have to do it. It is time.  I’m calling on Congress to provide a level playing field for our workers and our companies, to attract new companies and businesses to our shores, and to put more money into the pockets of everyday, hardworking people and also into the pockets of our companies so they can continue to grow and expand. (Applause.)  What could possibly be more bipartisan than allowing families to keep more of what they earn and creating an environment for real job and wage growth in the country that we love so much? (Applause.)  So let’s put — or at least try to put — the partisan posturing behind us and come together as Americans to create the 21st century tax code that our people deserve. (Applause.)  If we do this, if we unite in the name of common sense and the name of common good, then we will add millions and millions of new jobs, bring back trillions of dollars, and we will give America the competitive advantage that it so desperately needs and has been looking for for so long. It’s time. (Applause.)  Products made with American hands, American labor, and American grit will once again be delivered throughout the world. It’s true. (Applause.) It’s time. Instead of exporting our jobs, we will export our goods. (Applause.) Our jobs will both stay here in America and come back to America. We’ll have it both ways. Millions of struggling citizens will be lifted from welfare to work. They will love getting up in the morning. They will love going to their job. They will love earning a big, fat, beautiful paycheck. They will be proud again. (Applause.)  That is the future I want for our people. That is the future I want for America — a nation where we are proud, prosperous, united, and free.  Today, I am asking every citizen to join me in dreaming big and bold and daring things — beautiful things — for our country. I am asking every member of Congress, of which we have many with us today, to join me in unleashing America’s full potential. I am asking everyone in this room and across the nation to join me in demanding nothing but the best for our nation and for our people.  And if we do these things, and if we care for and support each other, and love each other, then we will truly make America great again.  Thank you. God bless you. (Applause.) God bless you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much. Governor, thank you. Thank you, Governor. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.  Well, thank you all for being here. We are doing a lot of things. A lot of things are happening. Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Secretary Alex Azar, who’s really setting the world on fire now with your lowering of prescription drug prices and a lot of other things you’re doing, and we appreciate it very much. A lot of people are seeing it, already, what’s happening. And especially the lowering of the price of healthcare -- we see what’s going on there. It’s going to be a tremendous reduction in healthcare pricing because of what we’re all doing together. So, great going, Alex. And Secretary Betsy DeVos for joining us.  Today we’re here with state and local leaders, law enforcement officers, and educations officials to discuss how we can make our schools safe and our communities secure. And no better time to discuss it than right now. And I think we’re making a lot of progress, and I can tell you there’s a tremendous feeling that we want to get something done. And we’re leading that feeling, I hope.  But there’s a great feeling, including at the NRA, including with Republican senators and, hopefully, Democrat senators and congressmen.  I want to thank Curtis Hill for being here, attorney general. I also want to thank a really tremendous attorney general -- that’s Pam Bondi, from Florida -- for being here. Thank you, Pam, very much. Great job you’ve done there.  Yesterday, I met with survivors of Parkland shooting. The Parkland shooting is just horrible. So bad for so many people and so bad for our country. Families who have lost their children in school shootings and local community members of Washington, D.C. who want to make sure that every child is safe at school. We’re having a lot of problems in Washington, D.C.  I listened to their heartbreaking stories. I asked them for their ideas, and pledged to them that we will take action, unlike, for many years, where people sitting in my position did not take action. They didn’t take proper action. They took no action at all. We’re going to take action.  Today we want to hear from you on how we can improve physical security in our schools, tackle the issue of mental health, which is a very big issue. This person that was caught after having killed so many people -- 17 -- and badly injuring so many others -- people don’t talk about the injured, and they have to go through life with that horrible, horrible situation that they were put in unnecessarily. People don’t talk about that, the people that are so badly -- I visited them in the hospital, in Broward County. And these are injuries like people wouldn’t believe.  And we want to ensure that, when we see warning signs, we act quickly. When we have somebody that’s mentally unstable, like this guy that was a sicko, and there were a lot of warning signs. A lot of people were calling, saying, hey, he’s going to do something bad. People have to act.  As I said last week, we must work together to create a culture of our country that cherishes life and forces real human connections. We’re also working to reduce violent crime in America and to make our communities places that can be totally safe for our children, for our families.  Under my administration, gun prosecutions have increased very significantly. The Attorney General is very, very much after that. And we’re also after the gangs. The gangs have been incredible. MS-13 -- I see where a couple of commentators that are lightweights said, “Oh, MS-13, who talks about that? That’s all he talked about on Fox.” No, that’s not talked about on Fox. That’s talked about in communities where they’re killing people, not necessarily with guns -- because that’s not painful enough. This is what they think. They want to do it more painfully and they want to do it slowly. So they cut them up with knives. They don’t use guns; they use knives, because they want it to be a long, painful death to people that had no idea this was coming.  And we’re getting them out by the thousands, putting them in jail and we’re getting them out by the thousands. And our people from ICE and our Border Patrol people are much tougher than they are. That’s the only thing they understand, by the way, is toughness. They don’t understand niceness. They understand toughness. And our people are much tougher. They go in there, they grab them by the neck. There’s no games being played. And I let them know that’s what we want. We need tougher people than they are, and our people are a lot tougher than they are.  So we’re working on getting violent offenders off the streets and guns out of the hands of the dangerous criminals. There’s nothing more important than protecting our children. We had a, really, incredible meeting yesterday with some of the families that have suffered so greatly, in different places, not only in Florida -- as you know, Columbine. And it was a very sad situation.  But I will tell you, background checks -- I called many senators last night, many congressmen, and Jeff and Pam and everybody in this room. I can tell you, Curtis, they’re into doing background checks that they wouldn’t be thinking about maybe two weeks ago. We’re going to do strong background checks. We’re going to work on getting the age up to 21 instead of 18. We’re getting rid of the bump stocks. And we’re going to be focusing very strongly on mental health, because here’s a case of mental health.  Part of the problem is we used to have mental institutions. And I said this yesterday -- where you had a mental institution where you take a sicko, like this guy -- he was a sick guy, so many sides -- and you bring him to a mental health institution. Those institutions are largely closed because communities didn’t want them. Communities didn’t want to spend the money for them. So you don’t have any intermediate ground. You can’t put them in jail because he hadn’t done anything yet, but you know he’s going to do something.  So we’re going to be talking seriously about opening mental health institutions again. In some cases, reopening. I can tell you, in New York, the governors in New York did a very, very bad thing when they closed our mental institutions, so many of them. You have these people living on the streets. And I can say that, in many cases throughout the country, they’re very dangerous. They shouldn’t be there. So we’re going to be talking about mental institutions. And when you have some person like this, you can bring them into a mental institution and they can see what they can do. But we got to get them out of our communities.  So with that being said, I’d like to ask the very talented people around this table to just introduce themselves quickly and say a few words. And maybe we can start off with Pam Bondi.  Pam, thank you.  Well, you mentioned the Internet. We have to look at the Internet because a lot of bad things are happening to young kids and young minds, and their minds are being formed. And we have to do something about maybe what they’re seeing and how they’re seeing it. And also video games. I’m hearing more and more people say the level of violence on video games is really shaping young people’s thoughts. And then you go the further step, and that’s the movies. You see these movies, they’re so violent. And yet a kid is able to see the movie if sex isn’t involved, but killing is involved, and maybe they have to put a rating system for that.  And, you know, you get into a whole very complicated, very big deal. But the fact is that you are having movies come out that are so violent, with the killing and everything else, that maybe that’s another thing we’re going to have to discuss. And a lot of people are saying it, you have these movies today where you can go and have a child see the movie, and yet it’s so violent and so disgusting. So we may have to talk about that also.  Well, thank you very much, Pam. Thank you very much. Jeff?  Good. Thank you. And you’re doing a great job with the gangs. The gangs are such a problem. You know, we talk about child safety. The kids walk home and they meet one of these gangs. And these are absolute animals. These aren’t human beings; these are animals. And it’s the torture -- the level of torture. In this country, who would ever believe a thing like this could happen? But we’re literally getting MS-13 out by the thousands. But they come in -- these are smart. They’re smart. They actually have franchises going to Los Angeles.  We’re getting no help from the state of California. I mean, frankly, if I wanted to pull our people from California, you would have a crying mess like you’ve never seen in California. All I’d have to do is say, ICE and Border Patrol, let California alone. You’d be inundated -- you would see crime like nobody has ever seen crime in this country. And yet we get no help from the state of California. They are doing a lousy management job. They have the highest taxes in the nation, and they don’t know what’s happening out there. Frankly, it’s a disgrace -- the sanctuary city situation, the protection of these horrible criminals -- you know because you’re working on it. And the protection of these horrible criminals in California, and other places, but in California. That if we ever pulled our ICE out and we ever said, “Hey, let California alone. Let them figure it out for themselves,” in two months they’d be begging for us to come back. They would be begging. And you know what? I’m thinking about doing it.  Yes, sir. Go ahead.  So we’ll be doing that. And I have to say, the states are starting to act -- Florida, as an example; your state. A lot of states are starting to act on their own. They don’t necessarily need 100 percent from the federal government. Federal government is going to help a lot, but a lot of states can do some of the things that I’m talking about on their own. And I really implore them to do it, and to do it as quickly as possible, as you understand. Thank you.  Well, I appreciate what you’re saying. And I’ve watched you and read about you, and you have a great story, where you came from and how you -- and you’re doing so fantastically well right now.  But I happen to agree with you. We have to harden our schools, not soften them up. A gun-free zone to a killer, or somebody that wants to be a killer, that’s like going in for the ice cream. That’s like, “Here I am, take me.” We have to get smart on gun-free zones. When they see it says, “This is a gun-free zone,” that means that nobody has a gun except them; nobody is going to be shooting bullets in the other direction. And they see that as such a beautiful target. They live for gun-free zones.  And, I mean, frankly, you have teachers that are Marines for 20 years, and they retire, they become a teacher. And they’re Army, Navy, Air Force, they’re Coast Guard, they’re people that have won shooting contests. And they’re for whatever -- this is what they do. They know guns, they understand guns.  And I, frankly, have been reading a lot about it. And I think when you allow a person who has been in the Marines for 20 years, who’s done nothing but handle guns and handle them safely and well -- because you can’t just give a teacher a gun.  One of the fake news networks, CNN, last night was saying I want teachers to have guns. I don’t want teachers to have guns. I want certain highly adept people, people that understand weaponry, guns -- if they really have that aptitude. Because not everybody has an aptitude for a gun. But if they have the aptitude, I think a concealed permit for -- having teachers and letting people know that there are people in the building with a gun -- you won’t have -- in my opinion, you won’t have these shootings. Because these people are cowards. They’re not going to walk into a school if 20 percent of the teachers have guns. It may be 10 percent or it may be 40 percent.  And what I would recommend doing is the people that do carry, we give them a bonus. We give them a little bit of a bonus. Frankly, they’d feel more comfortable having a gun anyway. But you give them a little bit of a bonus.  So practically for free, you have now made the school into a hardened target. For instance, if the coaches, who I guarantee had plenty of experience with weapons -- if they had guns -- you need to hard, because no matter what you do to keep them gun-free, they’ll be able to get in there, and they’ll crawl through the back of a window or something. And you’re going to have everybody, again, without any protection.  So I know where you stand on it. You want a hardened school, and I want a hardened school, too. I want to know that if they get in there, they’re not going to be long. Because it’s going to take 10 minutes for the police to get there. The police do an incredible job in getting there. I guess it averages about eight minutes, but the shootings average three minutes. And that’s tremendous destruction and death.  So I would like to see true people with great talent at guns and being adept at guns, of which there’s only a percentage of people. But whatever that percentage may be, it’s a substantial number. Because you can’t hire enough security guards. You can’t hire -- I mean, the school -- your school, as an example, Christine, you would have -- you’d need 100, 150 security guards. That is a very big school with a tremendous floor area. You can’t have that many -- who wants that many security guards standing all over the place, loaded up with guns?  But you could have concealed on the teachers. They wouldn’t know -- the people -- nobody would know who they are. And it is a tremendous threat. And, by the way, instead of advertising, “This school has no guns. We are gun-free,” you let the people know the opposite. Nobody is going to attack that school, believe me. Because they’re cowards. They don’t want to be shot at. And they’re going to be shot at.  So not everybody agrees with us -- I know how you stand -- and a lot of people do agree with us. But I think we need hardened sites. We need to let people know: You come into our schools, you’re going to be dead, and it’s going to be fast. And unless you do that, you’re going to always have this problem. You can talk about your gun-free zones. We had a case three years ago at a military base where five Marines, I believe, three of whom were world-class shots and experts at guns, they were told it was a gun-free area -- within a military base, if you can believe that.  If we can’t trust our military, who are we going to trust? You know what I’m saying. Five. They were putting away -- they put away their guns. Their guns were in a different section, totally gun-free. Their guns were 250 yards away from them where they had to store them. And they went in for lunch, and a wacko came in and shot the five of them. He wouldn’t have lasted for one -- three of these people were world-class marksmen. He wouldn’t have lasted for a second. But they stood there; there was nothing they could do. All five were killed. You know the instance I’m talking about. That was in a gun-free zone on a military base.  Well, a school is, frankly, no different. I want my schools protected just like my banks are protected, just like everything else. And I get a kick -- I was watching a politician, weak, ineffective politician last night -- I’d tell you a name, but I don’t want to embarrass anybody -- and he was talking about no guns, no this, no that. And yet, he’s surrounded by three guys carrying guns. I said, “Well, when are they going to give up their guns?” They’re not going to give up their guns. But he wants everybody else to have no guns. And you have plenty of them.  So we have to harden our sites. We have to be very careful. And these people, as adept as they may -- they have to go to training, I would say, every six months or every year. They have to have a fairly -- really, a rigorous course in what they’re doing. And they should be paid extra money. Those teachers should be paid extra money. So they get a bonus, and they’d love getting that bonus, too. And it would be much less expensive than the guards. It wouldn’t look bad. You know, if you have guards, it looks like you have an armed camp that would look terrible. Because people are telling me, we’re going to put a lot of security guards in the buildings. Will look terrible. And it would be much more effective.  But I’ll tell you what, if you harden these sites in that way, or some other way in a similar fashion -- not only teachers; coaches, it could be other people that work in the building -- if you harden the sites, you’re not going to have this problem, because these guys who lack courage will never go into those schools. Those schools are going to be safe.  But when you say a school is gun-free -- it’s got no guns, no nothing, it’s gun-free -- boy, they start -- that’s what they want to hear. So I agree with you, Patrick. Strongly agree with you.  Well, I want the politicians to watch. Like yesterday, very importantly, they watched, and a lot of them saw that. And they saw the devastation that’s caused. And you know, some of them maybe don’t know if they don’t get to see. I mean, I was with those families, and those families are devastated.  And I want the politicians to see that because they have to pass legislation. They have to do things. And I’m the biggest believer of the Second Amendment that there is. Okay? I am the biggest. But I’ll tell you what, I spoke with the NRA -- the top people. And I spoke, and they gave me tremendous support, and -- tremendous. I think I had their earliest -- I was probably the earliest one, Kellyanne, from what I hear, ever. You know, they endorsed me at the absolute earliest point that you could. And I’m a believer.  But I spoke to them, and they’re ready to do things. They want to do things. You know, they’re good people. They’re patriots. They love this country. But the NRA is ready to do things. And you know, people like to blame them, and they do have power and all of that. But they want to do -- they want to -- they actually came up with certain of the rules and regulations that we have now. But we’re going to have to toughen -- I told them, I said, we’re going to have to toughen them up. Because it doesn’t make anybody look good, and most importantly, I saw the devastation of these families. We can’t allow that to happen.  But again, we need a hardened school. But we want to harden it without having everybody standing there with a rifle. I don’t want that either because that’s no good. That sends a lot of bad signals. As an example, I’m watching John Kelly -- General John Kelly. So he’s a four-star Marine. He’s a tough cookie. If he was a teacher, I wouldn’t mind him have a gun because I guarantee he can use it better than anybody. There’s no security guard you’re going to hire that’s going to handle a gun better than him. So if he’s a teacher, and if other friends of his from the Marines, if they’re teaching -- or other people like that -- I want them to have a gun.  But more importantly -- almost more importantly, nobody is going to attack that school. Because they know General Kelly is the history teacher. He’s teaching about how we win wars, okay? And he’s got a concealed weapon. But they’re going to know he’s got a concealed, because we tell them that the bullets are going to be flying in the other direction. You’re not going to have these attacks if you do that.  If you’re going to continue with this nonsense about a gun-free zone -- gun-free, it sounds so good. It’s like -- it sounds so great. It is such a target for the killer. They look for gun-free zones because, believe it or not, they don’t want to get killed.  Well, look at the guy in Florida. He tried to escape with the other. Right? You had a great policeman caught him in a different community. But he actually escaped. He didn’t want to get shot. If he would have known that he was going to be shot -- because he’s a coward -- but he tried to escape. He did actually escape. They had a great policeman in a different community found him. So that’s what we need.  You know, this isn’t so much about funding. This is more about common sense. I mean, the money we’re talking about -- I mean, what I’m talking about is going to save money. Everybody that agrees on a hard -- they’re all talking about having 50 security guards standing all over the school, which is, you know, going to be very not nice for the students.  I’m talking about something where they’re there anyway, where they get a little extra money because they happen to carry, where they go for training every year. I mean, we’re talking about rules and regulations for purchasing. We’re talking about changing an age, from 18 to 21.  I mean, so they buy a revolver -- a handgun -- they buy at the age of 21. And yet, these other weapons that we talk about -- that some people don’t like -- they’re allowed to buy them at 18. So how does that make sense? How does that make sense? So I say that it should all be at 21.  But we’re not only talking about money. We’re talking about common sense, and it’s a great thing. And the NRA will back it. I really feel very confident the NRA will back it, and so will Congress, and so will the Senate.  No, no, focus on mental illness. You got to focus on mental illness; it’s a big factor. But in addition to mental illness, we have to harden our schools, we have to make sure -- in a way that doesn’t look like they’re hardened. But we have to let the bad guy know that they are hardened. There’s not going to be news. And we don’t want to have a secret. So you come in here, you’re not going to last long. You do that, you’re not going to have a problem.  Betsy, thank you.  But active shooter drills is a very negative thing, I’ll be honest with you. I mean, if I’m a child and I’m 10 years old, and they say, we’re going to have an active shooter drill, I say, “What’s that?” “Well, people may come in and shoot you.” I think that’s a very negative thing to be talking about, to be honest with you. I don’t like it. I’d much rather have a hardened school. I don’t like it. I wouldn’t want to tell my son that you’re going to participate in an active shooter drill. And I know some of them actually call it that. I think it’s crazy. I think it’s very bad for children.  Do you have anybody inside with a gun that can take on the man that’s right outside the door, that, by the way, can shoot right through the steel doors, as they did in your school? Those bullets went right through those steel doors like they were butter.  I want to thank everybody. I just want to end by saying -- in listening to some of these suggestions, we really do have to have offensive measures also. I know people don’t like talking about it, but we need offensive as well as defensive. We have to be totally defensive. But if we don’t have offensive measures within these schools, we’re just -- you’re just kidding yourselves, folks. You’re just kidding yourselves.  And if the offensive measures are strong and solid, you’re going to stop the problem. You’re going to stop the problem. Because they’re not coming into that school. They’ll find something else, unfortunately. But they’re not coming into that school.  So I just would like everybody to think about that because I hear so many of these wonderful plans where you’re going to live in this utopian school and there’s not going to be any protection, there’s not going to be any guns, there’s not going to be any bullets flying at the perpetrator -- the animal that wants to destroy the lives of families and children.  Unless you’re going to have offensive capability, you’re wasting your time. You’re wasting your time. And you’re going to talk, and it would be easier to pass -- I’m sure you’re having a lot of trouble in Florida passing because a lot of people don’t understand it, or they do understand it, but it’s politically what they want to believe.  Because I want to end the problem. I don’t want to have it where this happens again. And unless we’re going to have an offensive capability, it’s going to happen again, and again, and again, and it’s going to be the same old story. And people are going to be sitting around tables and talking. I like to get things done. And to get this done, we do need defense but we also need offensive capability.  I want to thank everybody. You’re really experts at what you’re doing. And it’s really tremendous hearing some of these ideas that a lot of people haven’t heard. The media is now hearing things that they haven’t heard. And a lot of people that are watching on television right now are hearing things that they haven’t heard.  So it’s a horrible situation. We’re going to get it stopped. And we’re going to stop it through heart and through toughness. It’s a combination of through love and through toughness. Otherwise it’s not going to happen. Just not going to happen. It’s not going to stop.  And again, thank you all very much. It’s a great honor to be with you. Thank you all very much. Thank you.  Thank you very much. I don’t think I’ll be going up against them. I really think the NRA wants to do what’s right. I mean, they’re very close to me. I’m very close to them. They’re very, very great people. They love this country. They’re patriots.  The NRA wants to do the right thing. I have spoken to them often in the last two days, and they want to do the right thing. They’re going to do the right thing. I have no doubt about it.  These are experts. These would be people that actually would want them. And it would be a small percentage, but it would be a lot of people. And once you do this, you will have a situation where, all of a sudden, this horrible plague will stop.  My fellow Americans, today I speak to a nation in grief. Yesterday, a school filled with innocent children and caring teachers became the scene of terrible violence, hatred and evil. Around 2:30 yesterday afternoon, police responded to reports of gunfire at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida -- a great and safe community. There, a shooter, who is now in custody, opened fire on defenseless students and teachers. He murdered 17 people and badly wounded at least 14 others. Our entire nation, with one heavy heart, is praying for the victims and their families. To every parent, teacher, and child who is hurting so badly, we are here for you -- whatever you need, whatever we can do, to ease your pain. We are all joined together as one American family, and your suffering is our burden also. No child, no teacher, should ever be in danger in an American school. No parent should ever have to fear for their sons and daughters when they kiss them goodbye in the morning. Each person who was stolen from us yesterday had a full life ahead of them -- a life filled with wondrous beauty and unlimited potential and promise. Each one had dreams to pursue, love to give, and talents to share with the world. And each one had a family to whom they meant everything in the world. Today, we mourn for all of those who lost their lives. We comfort the grieving and the wounded. And we hurt for the entire community of Parkland, Florida, that is now in shock, in pain, and searching for answers. To law enforcement, first responders, and teachers who responded so bravely in the face of danger: We thank you for your courage. Soon after the shooting, I spoke with Gov. (Rick) Scott to convey our deepest sympathies to the people of Florida and our determination to assist in any way that we can. I also spoke with Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi and Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel. I'm making plans to visit Parkland to meet with families and local officials, and to continue coordinating the federal response. In these moments of heartache and darkness, we hold on to God's word in scripture: "I have heard your prayer and seen your tears. I will heal you." We trust in that promise, and we hold fast to our fellow Americans in their time of sorrow. I want to speak now directly to America's children, especially those who feel lost, alone, confused or even scared: I want you to know that you are never alone and you never will be. You have people who care about you, who love you, and who will do anything at all to protect you. If you need help, turn to a teacher, a family member, a local police officer, or a faith leader. Answer hate with love; answer cruelty with kindness.  We must also work together to create a culture in our country that embraces the dignity of life, that creates deep and meaningful human connections and that turns classmates and colleagues into friends and neighbors. Our administration is working closely with local authorities to investigate the shooting and learn everything we can. We are committed to working with state and local leaders to help secure our schools, and tackle the difficult issue of mental health. Later this month, I will be meeting with the nation's governors and attorney generals, where making our schools and our children safer will be our top priority. It is not enough to simply take actions that make us feel like we are making a difference. We must actually make that difference. In times of tragedy, the bonds that sustain us are those of family, faith, community, and country. These bonds are stronger than the forces of hatred and evil, and these bonds grow even stronger in the hours of our greatest need. And so always, but especially today, let us hold our loved ones close, let us pray for healing and for peace, and let us come together as one nation to wipe away the tears and strive for a much better tomorrow. Thank you. And God Bless you all. Thank you very much.